## Observer Pattern

#### The Observer Pattern defines a one-to-many dependency between objects(Subject and Observers) so that when one object (subject) changes state, all of its dependents(observers) are notified and updated automatically.

#### Publishers(SUBJECT) + Subscribers(OBSERVER) = Observer Pattern

#### Publisher is called Subject.
#### Subscriber is called Observer.
#### The observers are dependent on the subject — when the subject’s state changes, the observers are notified.

##### eg : A newspaper subscription, with its publisher and subscribers, is a good way to visualize the pattern.



```mermaid 
classDiagram
    note "Subject(Publisher) has many Observers(Subscribers)"
    Subject --> Observer : Observers(Subscribers)
    ConcreteObserver --> ConcreteSubject : Subject(Publisher) 
    Observer <|-- ConcreteObserver : ConcreteObserver implements Observer
    Subject <|-- ConcreteSubject : ConcreteSubject implements Subject
    
   
   class Subject
      <<Interface>> Subject
      Subject : registerObserver()
      Subject : removeObserver()
      Subject : notifyObserver()

   class Observer
      <<Interface>> Observer
      Observer : update()


   class ConcreteSubject{
     registerObserver()
     removeObserver()
     notifyObserver()
   }

   class ConcreteObserver {
     update()
     // other Observer Specif methods
   }   
  ```


  Points: 

  1. With the Observer Pattern, the Subject is the object that contains the state and controls it. So, there is ONE subject with state. The observers, on the other hand, use the state, even if they don’t own it. There are many observers, and they rely on the Subject to tell them when its state changes. So there is a relationship between the ONE Subject to the MANY Observers.
  2. The **Publish-Subscribe Pattern** is a more complex pattern that allows subscribers to express interest in different types of messages and further separates publishers from subscribers. It is often used in middleware systems.
  3. **Loose Coupling** - We say a object is tightly coupled to another object when it is too dependent on that object. In software, designs break less easily if our objects are less tightly bound together. **Program to an interface(Supertype), not an implementation.**


### Observer Pattern is a great example of loose coupling.

1. The only thing the Subject knows about an Observer is that it
implements a certain interface (the Observer interface).
2. We can add new observers at any time.
3. We never need to modify the subject to add new types of observers.
4. We can reuse subjects or observers independently of each other.
5. Changes to either the subject or an observer will not affect the other.


